## Q: What is npm?
npm is package manager for JavaScript language. it is the default package manager for javaScript run time enviornment NodeJs. 

## Q: What is `Parcel/Webpack`? Why do we need it?
Both `Parcel/Webpack` are module bundler tools that take your javaScript code and any other assets like (images, CSS, etc) and bundle them together into a format that can be efficiently served  to browsers.
One of the biggest advantages of `Parcel` is that it requires zero configuration to get started.
#### Parcel Feature.
* HMR (Hot Module Replacement) - parcel keeps track of file changes via file watcher algorithm and renders the changes in the files
* File watcher algorithm - made with C++
* Minification
* Cleaning our code
* Diff DEV and production Build
* Super fast building algorithm
* Image optimization
* Caching while development - (made build fast after 1st time)
* Compresses
* Compatible with older version of browser
* HTTPS in dev
* Consistent hashing algorithm
* Zero Configuration
* Automatic code splitting
* Tree Shaking - remove unused code

### Command to install
`npm install -D parcel`
`-D` used only in development mode

## Q: What is `.parcel-cache`?
It stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch. It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.

## Q: What is `npx`?
NPX stands for Node Package eXecute. It is simply an NPM package runner. It allows developers to execute any Javascript Package available on the NPM registry without even installing it. NPX is installed automatically with NPM version 5.2.

## Q: What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`?
`Dependencies` are the packages required for your application to function correctly in Development and Production enviornment. such as `React` or  npm package like `lodash, axios`.

`Dev Dependies` are tools or utilities that only required in Dev mode , but not needed in production enviornment. such as `parcel, vite, webpack`.

## Q: - What is Tree Shaking?
It is technique used by `bundler` like parsel/webpack to eliminate `dead code (unused code)` from your javaScript code. This reduced the bundle size and `optimize code`.

## Q: What is Hot Module Replacement?
Hot Module Replacement (HMR) is a feature in `module bundlers` like Webpack/Parcel that allows you to update modules in your application without requiring a full page reload. With HMR, changes you make to your code (e.g: JavaScript, CSS, or even assets) are reflected instantly in the browser, making the development process faster and efficient.

##  Q: What is `.gitignore`? What should we add and not add into it?
.gitignore is a configuration file used by Git to specify intentionally untracked files and directories that Git should ignore when tracking changes in a repository.
we should ignore
* node_module
* build folder
* env (enviornment variables)
* parcel-cachce

## Q: What is the difference between package.json and package-lock.json?
`package.json` is the configuration of npm. It contain the basic info about our project. name. version, dependencies etc... . It store dependencies name and their version.

`package-lock.json` it is automatically generated by npm when you run `npm install` to install or update dependencies. It keep track of dependencies exact version installed in the project. it ensure consistent installation of dependendies across different enviornment and machines.

## Q: Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?
It contain information about dependencies and their versions.  To ensure consistency and reproducibility across different environments, both files should be committed to version control

## Q: What is node_modules ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?
node_modules is like a cache that your project depends upon. when you install `npm package or dependency` they are downloaded from their registry and placed in node module folder. `Don't push this to git` because it is too large in sie. it will cost your space.

## Q: What is the `dist` folder?
This dist folder is the `build folder` that contain all files and folder that can be `hosted on server`. it contain minimized version of your code.

## Q: What is `browserlists`?
`BrowserList` is a tool that allow which browser should `support your frontend web application`. It's used by frameworks/libraries such as React, Angular and Vue, but it's not limited to them. We write It's configuration in `package.json`. 

